# (Reddit) Social Media Sentiment Analysis of Publicly Traded Firms

Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed by me for academic, self learning, and hobby purposes. Presented in the form of Juptyer Notebooks

## Description

The financial market is something which I have a continued enthusiasm for, as well as professional interest as I believe machine learning and the financial sector will be linked tighter as innovation increases. Traditionally, Quants have held special positions on Wall Street per their expertise in the field. Statisticians by nature and aided by computer technology the field has continued to change in the past two decades. In just the past decade as machine learning has expanded and Wall Street eager to adapt new technologies. Retail investors now being more programming and computer literate have a new opportunity to level the playing field somewhat with machine learning. Sentiment Analysis has provided the financial sector a new place to mine for information. As the currency of any age is information, gaining that information in the right hands can make many people wealthy. Retail investors can also mine this information to determine which way a stock is headed. Mining social media platforms enable us to find the right information at the right time. The business problem is getting the information before a large portion of investors can begin to move into the market. For example, if sentiment dictates that there is a downward shift in a firm, you could be able to sell off your shares before it gets reported on CNBC or the WSJ where “normal” investors would react to this news.

This project analyzes user sentiment in social media platforms. I believe Reddit is a suitable option due to the character limits of Twitter. Whereas in Reddit, a more general discussion would be able to take place. The objective will be to assess whether user sentiment from social media can reliably predict market trends. If they do, how soon before a market event occurs. Additionally, if the social media sentiment precedes a market event. What would be the timing difference between major news outlets and social media groups. Arguably, the saying goes if it’s on the news, you missed out. So, seeing if social media has a better pulse on the market would be a business venture to pursue if you can see market trends before they occur.
